tests/README.md, before:

System Integration & Performance Testing
========================================

This directory contains Kafka system integration and performance tests.
[ducktape](https://github.com/confluentinc/ducktape) is used to run the tests.  
(ducktape is a distributed testing framework which provides test runner,
result reporter and utilities to pull up and tear down services.)

Running tests using docker
--------------------------
Docker containers can be used for running kafka system tests locally.
* Requirements
  - Docker 1.12.3 (or higher) is installed and running on the machine.
  - Test require that Kafka, including system test libs, is built. This can be done by running ./gradlew clean systemTestLibs
* Run all tests
```
bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run all tests with debug on (warning will produce log of logs)
```
_DUCKTAPE_OPTIONS="--debug" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh | tee debug_logs.txt
```
* Run a subset of tests
```
TC_PATHS="tests/kafkatest/tests/streams tests/kafkatest/tests/tools" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run a specific tests file
```
TC_PATHS="tests/kafkatest/tests/client/pluggable_test.py" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run a specific test class
```
TC_PATHS="tests/kafkatest/tests/client/pluggable_test.py::PluggableConsumerTest" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run a specific test method
```
TC_PATHS="tests/kafkatest/tests/client/pluggable_test.py::PluggableConsumerTest.test_start_stop" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run tests with a different JVM
```
bash tests/docker/ducker-ak up -j 'openjdk:11'; tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```

* Notes
  - The scripts to run tests creates and destroys docker network named *knw*.
   This network can't be used for any other purpose.
  - The docker containers are named knode01, knode02 etc.
   These nodes can't be used for any other purpose.

Examining CI run
----------------
* Set BUILD_ID is travis ci's build id. E.g. build id is 169519874 for the following build
```bash
https://travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874
```

* Getting number of tests that were actually run
```bash
for id in $(curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/builds/$BUILD_ID | jq '.matrix|map(.id)|.[]'); do curl -sSL "https://api.travis-ci.org/jobs/$id/log.txt?deansi=true" ; done | grep -cE 'RunnerClient: Loading test'
```

* Getting number of tests that passed
```bash
for id in $(curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/builds/$BUILD_ID | jq '.matrix|map(.id)|.[]'); do curl -sSL "https://api.travis-ci.org/jobs/$id/log.txt?deansi=true" ; done | grep -cE 'RunnerClient.*PASS'
```
* Getting all the logs produced from a run
```bash
for id in $(curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/builds/$BUILD_ID | jq '.matrix|map(.id)|.[]'); do curl -sSL "https://api.travis-ci.org/jobs/$id/log.txt?deansi=true" ; done
```
* Explanation of curl calls to travis-ci & jq commands
  - We get json information of the build using the following command
```bash
curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874
```
This produces a json about the build which looks like:
```json
{
  "id": 169519874,
  "repository_id": 6097916,
  "number": "19",
  "config": {
    "sudo": "required",
    "dist": "trusty",
    "language": "java",
    "env": [
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/client\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/connect tests/kafkatest/tests/streams tests/kafkatest/tests/tools\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/mirror_maker\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/replication\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/upgrade\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/security\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/core\""
    ],
    "jdk": [
      "oraclejdk8"
    ],
    "before_install": null,
    "script": [
      "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
    ],
    "services": [
      "docker"
    ],
    "before_cache": [
      "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
      "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
    ],
    "cache": {
      "directories": [
        "$HOME/.m2/repository",
        "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
        "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
      ]
    },
    ".result": "configured",
    "group": "stable"
  },
  "state": "finished",
  "result": null,
  "status": null,
  "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:43Z",
  "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:46:03Z",
  "duration": 16514,
  "commit": "7e583d9ea08c70dbbe35a3adde72ed203a797f64",
  "branch": "trunk",
  "message": "respect _DUCK_OPTIONS",
  "committed_at": "2016-10-21T00:12:36Z",
  "author_name": "Raghav Kumar Gautam",
  "author_email": "raghav@apache.org",
  "committer_name": "Raghav Kumar Gautam",
  "committer_email": "raghav@apache.org",
  "compare_url": "https://github.com/raghavgautam/kafka/compare/cc788ac99ca7...7e583d9ea08c",
  "event_type": "push",
  "matrix": [
    {
      "id": 169519875,
      "repository_id": 6097916,
      "number": "19.1",
      "config": {
        "sudo": "required",
        "dist": "trusty",
        "language": "java",
        "env": "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/client\"",
        "jdk": "oraclejdk8",
        "before_install": null,
        "script": [
          "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
        ],
        "services": [
          "docker"
        ],
        "before_cache": [
          "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
          "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
        ],
        "cache": {
          "directories": [
            "$HOME/.m2/repository",
            "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
            "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
          ]
        },
        ".result": "configured",
        "group": "stable",
        "os": "linux"
      },
      "result": null,
      "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:43Z",
      "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:24:50Z",
      "allow_failure": false
    },
    {
      "id": 169519876,
      "repository_id": 6097916,
      "number": "19.2",
      "config": {
        "sudo": "required",
        "dist": "trusty",
        "language": "java",
        "env": "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/connect tests/kafkatest/tests/streams tests/kafkatest/tests/tools\"",
        "jdk": "oraclejdk8",
        "before_install": null,
        "script": [
          "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
        ],
        "services": [
          "docker"
        ],
        "before_cache": [
          "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
          "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
        ],
        "cache": {
          "directories": [
            "$HOME/.m2/repository",
            "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
            "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
          ]
        },
        ".result": "configured",
        "group": "stable",
        "os": "linux"
      },
      "result": 1,
      "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:46Z",
      "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:22:05Z",
      "allow_failure": false
    },

    ...
  ]
}

```
  - By passing this through jq filter `.matrix` we extract the matrix part of the json
```bash
curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874 | jq '.matrix'
```
The resulting json looks like:
```json
[
  {
    "id": 169519875,
    "repository_id": 6097916,
    "number": "19.1",
    "config": {
      "sudo": "required",
      "dist": "trusty",
      "language": "java",
      "env": "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/client\"",
      "jdk": "oraclejdk8",
      "before_install": null,
      "script": [
        "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
      ],
      "services": [
        "docker"
      ],
      "before_cache": [
        "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
        "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
      ],
      "cache": {
        "directories": [
          "$HOME/.m2/repository",
          "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
          "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
        ]
      },
      ".result": "configured",
      "group": "stable",
      "os": "linux"
    },
    "result": null,
    "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:43Z",
    "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:24:50Z",
    "allow_failure": false
  },
  {
    "id": 169519876,
    "repository_id": 6097916,
    "number": "19.2",
    "config": {
      "sudo": "required",
      "dist": "trusty",
      "language": "java",
      "env": "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/connect tests/kafkatest/tests/streams tests/kafkatest/tests/tools\"",
      "jdk": "oraclejdk8",
      "before_install": null,
      "script": [
        "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
      ],
      "services": [
        "docker"
      ],
      "before_cache": [
        "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
        "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
      ],
      "cache": {
        "directories": [
          "$HOME/.m2/repository",
          "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
          "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
        ]
      },
      ".result": "configured",
      "group": "stable",
      "os": "linux"
    },
    "result": 1,
    "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:46Z",
    "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:22:05Z",
    "allow_failure": false
  },

  ...
]

```
  - By further passing this through jq filter `map(.id)` we extract the id of
  the builds for each of the splits
```bash
curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874 | jq '.matrix|map(.id)'
```
The resulting json looks like:
```json
[
  169519875,
  169519876,
  169519877,
  169519878,
  169519879,
  169519880,
  169519881
]
```
  - To use these ids in for loop we want to get rid of `[]` which is done by
  passing it through `.[]` filter
```bash
curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874 | jq '.matrix|map(.id)|.[]'
```
And we get
```text
169519875
169519876
169519877
169519878
169519879
169519880
169519881
```
  - In the for loop we have made calls to fetch logs
```bash
curl -sSL "https://api.travis-ci.org/jobs/169519875/log.txt?deansi=true" | tail
```
which gives us
```text
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:21:12,538]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: test 16 of 28
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:21:12,538]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: setting up
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:21:30,810]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: running
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:24:35,519]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: PASS
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:24:35,519]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: tearing down


The job exceeded the maximum time limit for jobs, and has been terminated.

```
* Links
  - [Travis-CI REST api documentation](https://docs.travis-ci.com/api)
  - [jq Manual](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/)

Local Quickstart
----------------
This quickstart will help you run the Kafka system tests on your local machine. Note this requires bringing up a cluster of virtual machines on your local computer, which is memory intensive; it currently requires around 10G RAM.
For a tutorial on how to setup and run the Kafka system tests, see
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/tutorial+-+set+up+and+run+Kafka+system+tests+with+ducktape

* Install Virtual Box from [https://www.virtualbox.org/](https://www.virtualbox.org/) (run `$ vboxmanage --version` to check if it's installed).
* Install Vagrant >= 1.6.4 from [https://www.vagrantup.com/](https://www.vagrantup.com/) (run `vagrant --version` to check if it's installed).
* Install system test dependencies, including ducktape, a command-line tool and library for testing distributed systems. We recommend to use virtual env for system test development

        $ cd kafka/tests
        $ virtualenv venv
        $ . ./venv/bin/activate
        $ python setup.py develop
        $ cd ..  # back to base kafka directory

* Run the bootstrap script to set up Vagrant for testing

        $ tests/bootstrap-test-env.sh

* Bring up the test cluster

        $ vagrant/vagrant-up.sh
        $ # When using Virtualbox, it also works to run: vagrant up

* Build the desired branch of Kafka

        $ git checkout $BRANCH
        $ gradle  # (only if necessary)
        $ ./gradlew systemTestLibs

* Run the system tests using ducktape:

        $ ducktape tests/kafkatest/tests

EC2 Quickstart
--------------
This quickstart will help you run the Kafka system tests on EC2. In this setup, all logic is run
on EC2 and none on your local machine.

There are a lot of steps here, but the basic goals are to create one distinguished EC2 instance that
will be our "test driver", and to set up the security groups and iam role so that the test driver
can create, destroy, and run ssh commands on any number of "workers".

As a convention, we'll use "kafkatest" in most names, but you can use whatever name you want.

Preparation
-----------
In these steps, we will create an IAM role which has permission to create and destroy EC2 instances,
set up a keypair used for ssh access to the test driver and worker machines, and create a security group to allow the test driver and workers to all communicate via TCP.

* [Create an IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create_for-user.html). We'll give this role the ability to launch or kill additional EC2 machines.
 - Create role "kafkatest-master"
 - Role type: Amazon EC2
 - Attach policy: AmazonEC2FullAccess (this will allow our test-driver to create and destroy EC2 instances)

* If you haven't already, [set up a keypair to use for SSH access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html). For the purpose
of this quickstart, let's say the keypair name is kafkatest, and you've saved the private key in kafktest.pem

* Next, create a EC2 security group called "kafkatest".
 - After creating the group, inbound rules: allow SSH on port 22 from anywhere; also, allow access on all ports (0-65535) from other machines in the kafkatest group.

Create the Test Driver
----------------------
* Launch a new test driver machine
 - OS: Ubuntu server is recommended
 - Instance type: t2.medium is easily enough since this machine is just a driver
 - Instance details: Most defaults are fine.
 - IAM role -> kafkatest-master
 - Tagging the instance with a useful name is recommended.
 - Security group -> 'kafkatest'


* Once the machine is started, upload the SSH key to your test driver:

        $ scp -i /path/to/kafkatest.pem \
            /path/to/kafkatest.pem ubuntu@public.hostname.amazonaws.com:kafkatest.pem

* Grab the public hostname/IP (available for example by navigating to your EC2 dashboard and viewing running instances) of your test driver and SSH into it:

        $ ssh -i /path/to/kafkatest.pem ubuntu@public.hostname.amazonaws.com

Set Up the Test Driver
----------------------
The following steps assume you have ssh'd into
the test driver machine.

* Start by making sure you're up to date, and install git and ducktape:

        $ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get -y upgrade && sudo apt-get install -y python-pip git
        $ pip install ducktape

* Get Kafka:

        $ git clone https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/kafka.git kafka

* Update your AWS credentials:

        export AWS_IAM_ROLE=$(curl -s http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/info | grep InstanceProfileArn | cut -d '"' -f 4 | cut -d '/' -f 2)
        export AWS_ACCESS_KEY=$(curl -s http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials/$AWS_IAM_ROLE | grep AccessKeyId | awk -F\" '{ print $4 }')
        export AWS_SECRET_KEY=$(curl -s http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials/$AWS_IAM_ROLE | grep SecretAccessKey | awk -F\" '{ print $4 }')
        export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=$(curl -s http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials/$AWS_IAM_ROLE | grep Token | awk -F\" '{ print $4 }')

* Install some dependencies:

        $ cd kafka
        $ ./vagrant/aws/aws-init.sh
        $ . ~/.bashrc

* An example Vagrantfile.local has been created by aws-init.sh which looks something like:

        # Vagrantfile.local
        ec2_instance_type = "..." # Pick something appropriate for your
                                  # test. Note that the default m3.medium has
                                  # a small disk.
        ec2_spot_max_price = "0.123"  # On-demand price for instance type
        enable_hostmanager = false
        num_zookeepers = 0
        num_kafka = 0
        num_workers = 9
        ec2_keypair_name = 'kafkatest'
        ec2_keypair_file = '/home/ubuntu/kafkatest.pem'
        ec2_security_groups = ['kafkatest']
        ec2_region = 'us-west-2'
        ec2_ami = "ami-29ebb519"

* Start up the instances:

        # This will brink up worker machines in small parallel batches
        $ vagrant/vagrant-up.sh --aws

* Now you should be able to run tests:

        $ cd kafka/tests
        $ ducktape kafkatest/tests

* Update Worker VM

If you change code in a branch on your driver VM, you need to update your worker VM to pick up this change:

        $ ./gradlew systemTestLibs
        $ vagrant rsync

* To halt your workers without destroying persistent state, run `vagrant halt`. Run `vagrant destroy -f` to destroy all traces of your workers.

Unit Tests
----------
The system tests have unit tests! The various services in the python `kafkatest` module are reasonably complex, and intended to be reusable. Hence we have unit tests
for the system service classes.

Where are the unit tests?
* The kafkatest unit tests are located under kafka/tests/unit

How do I run the unit tests?
* cd kafka/tests # The base system test directory
* python setup.py test

How can I add a unit test?
* Follow the naming conventions - module name starts with "check", class name begins with "Check", test method name begins with "check"
* These naming conventions are defined in "setup.cfg". We use "check" to distinguish unit tests from system tests, which use "test" in the various names.

Commit message:

CONFLUENT: Fix tiered storage system tests (#680)
- Use updated JMX metrics in system tests.
- Disable testing of SASL_SSL inter-broker protocol with tiered storage enabled, as this is not expected to work.

Co-authored-by: Dhruvil Shah <dhruvil@confluent.io>
Co-authored-by: Lucas Bradstreet <lucas@confluent.io>

tests/README.md, after:

System Integration & Performance Testing
========================================

This directory contains Kafka system integration and performance tests.
[ducktape](https://github.com/confluentinc/ducktape) is used to run the tests.  
(ducktape is a distributed testing framework which provides test runner,
result reporter and utilities to pull up and tear down services.)

Running tests using docker
--------------------------
Docker containers can be used for running kafka system tests locally.
* Requirements
  - Docker 1.12.3 (or higher) is installed and running on the machine.
  - Test require that Kafka, including system test libs, is built. This can be done by running ./gradlew clean systemTestLibs
* Run all tests
```
bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run all tests with debug on (warning will produce log of logs)
```
_DUCKTAPE_OPTIONS="--debug" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh | tee debug_logs.txt
```
* Run a subset of tests
```
TC_PATHS="tests/kafkatest/tests/streams tests/kafkatest/tests/tools" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run a specific tests file
```
TC_PATHS="tests/kafkatest/tests/client/pluggable_test.py" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run a specific test class
```
TC_PATHS="tests/kafkatest/tests/client/pluggable_test.py::PluggableConsumerTest" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run a specific test method
```
TC_PATHS="tests/kafkatest/tests/client/pluggable_test.py::PluggableConsumerTest.test_start_stop" bash tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```
* Run tests with a different JVM
```
bash tests/docker/ducker-ak up -j 'openjdk:11'; tests/docker/run_tests.sh
```

* Notes
  - The scripts to run tests creates and destroys docker network named *knw*.
   This network can't be used for any other purpose.
  - The docker containers are named knode01, knode02 etc.
   These nodes can't be used for any other purpose.

Setup for tests with tiered storage support
-------------------------------------------
Tests with tiered storage support require an additional step so that brokers have the right access to S3 bucket. This can be done by running the following before running the test:
```
docker_args="--build-arg aws_access_key_id=$(aws configure get aws_access_key_id) --build-arg aws_secret_access_key=$(aws configure get aws_secret_access_key)" ./tests/docker/ducker-ak up
```

Examining CI run
----------------
* Set BUILD_ID is travis ci's build id. E.g. build id is 169519874 for the following build
```bash
https://travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874
```

* Getting number of tests that were actually run
```bash
for id in $(curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/builds/$BUILD_ID | jq '.matrix|map(.id)|.[]'); do curl -sSL "https://api.travis-ci.org/jobs/$id/log.txt?deansi=true" ; done | grep -cE 'RunnerClient: Loading test'
```

* Getting number of tests that passed
```bash
for id in $(curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/builds/$BUILD_ID | jq '.matrix|map(.id)|.[]'); do curl -sSL "https://api.travis-ci.org/jobs/$id/log.txt?deansi=true" ; done | grep -cE 'RunnerClient.*PASS'
```
* Getting all the logs produced from a run
```bash
for id in $(curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/builds/$BUILD_ID | jq '.matrix|map(.id)|.[]'); do curl -sSL "https://api.travis-ci.org/jobs/$id/log.txt?deansi=true" ; done
```
* Explanation of curl calls to travis-ci & jq commands
  - We get json information of the build using the following command
```bash
curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874
```
This produces a json about the build which looks like:
```json
{
  "id": 169519874,
  "repository_id": 6097916,
  "number": "19",
  "config": {
    "sudo": "required",
    "dist": "trusty",
    "language": "java",
    "env": [
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/client\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/connect tests/kafkatest/tests/streams tests/kafkatest/tests/tools\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/mirror_maker\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/replication\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/upgrade\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/security\"",
      "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/core\""
    ],
    "jdk": [
      "oraclejdk8"
    ],
    "before_install": null,
    "script": [
      "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
    ],
    "services": [
      "docker"
    ],
    "before_cache": [
      "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
      "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
    ],
    "cache": {
      "directories": [
        "$HOME/.m2/repository",
        "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
        "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
      ]
    },
    ".result": "configured",
    "group": "stable"
  },
  "state": "finished",
  "result": null,
  "status": null,
  "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:43Z",
  "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:46:03Z",
  "duration": 16514,
  "commit": "7e583d9ea08c70dbbe35a3adde72ed203a797f64",
  "branch": "trunk",
  "message": "respect _DUCK_OPTIONS",
  "committed_at": "2016-10-21T00:12:36Z",
  "author_name": "Raghav Kumar Gautam",
  "author_email": "raghav@apache.org",
  "committer_name": "Raghav Kumar Gautam",
  "committer_email": "raghav@apache.org",
  "compare_url": "https://github.com/raghavgautam/kafka/compare/cc788ac99ca7...7e583d9ea08c",
  "event_type": "push",
  "matrix": [
    {
      "id": 169519875,
      "repository_id": 6097916,
      "number": "19.1",
      "config": {
        "sudo": "required",
        "dist": "trusty",
        "language": "java",
        "env": "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/client\"",
        "jdk": "oraclejdk8",
        "before_install": null,
        "script": [
          "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
        ],
        "services": [
          "docker"
        ],
        "before_cache": [
          "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
          "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
        ],
        "cache": {
          "directories": [
            "$HOME/.m2/repository",
            "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
            "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
          ]
        },
        ".result": "configured",
        "group": "stable",
        "os": "linux"
      },
      "result": null,
      "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:43Z",
      "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:24:50Z",
      "allow_failure": false
    },
    {
      "id": 169519876,
      "repository_id": 6097916,
      "number": "19.2",
      "config": {
        "sudo": "required",
        "dist": "trusty",
        "language": "java",
        "env": "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/connect tests/kafkatest/tests/streams tests/kafkatest/tests/tools\"",
        "jdk": "oraclejdk8",
        "before_install": null,
        "script": [
          "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
        ],
        "services": [
          "docker"
        ],
        "before_cache": [
          "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
          "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
        ],
        "cache": {
          "directories": [
            "$HOME/.m2/repository",
            "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
            "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
          ]
        },
        ".result": "configured",
        "group": "stable",
        "os": "linux"
      },
      "result": 1,
      "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:46Z",
      "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:22:05Z",
      "allow_failure": false
    },

    ...
  ]
}

```
  - By passing this through jq filter `.matrix` we extract the matrix part of the json
```bash
curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874 | jq '.matrix'
```
The resulting json looks like:
```json
[
  {
    "id": 169519875,
    "repository_id": 6097916,
    "number": "19.1",
    "config": {
      "sudo": "required",
      "dist": "trusty",
      "language": "java",
      "env": "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/client\"",
      "jdk": "oraclejdk8",
      "before_install": null,
      "script": [
        "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
      ],
      "services": [
        "docker"
      ],
      "before_cache": [
        "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
        "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
      ],
      "cache": {
        "directories": [
          "$HOME/.m2/repository",
          "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
          "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
        ]
      },
      ".result": "configured",
      "group": "stable",
      "os": "linux"
    },
    "result": null,
    "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:43Z",
    "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:24:50Z",
    "allow_failure": false
  },
  {
    "id": 169519876,
    "repository_id": 6097916,
    "number": "19.2",
    "config": {
      "sudo": "required",
      "dist": "trusty",
      "language": "java",
      "env": "TC_PATHS=\"tests/kafkatest/tests/connect tests/kafkatest/tests/streams tests/kafkatest/tests/tools\"",
      "jdk": "oraclejdk8",
      "before_install": null,
      "script": [
        "./gradlew systemTestLibs && /bin/bash ./tests/travis/run_tests.sh"
      ],
      "services": [
        "docker"
      ],
      "before_cache": [
        "rm -f  $HOME/.gradle/caches/modules-2/modules-2.lock",
        "rm -fr $HOME/.gradle/caches/*/plugin-resolution/"
      ],
      "cache": {
        "directories": [
          "$HOME/.m2/repository",
          "$HOME/.gradle/caches/",
          "$HOME/.gradle/wrapper/"
        ]
      },
      ".result": "configured",
      "group": "stable",
      "os": "linux"
    },
    "result": 1,
    "started_at": "2016-10-21T13:35:46Z",
    "finished_at": "2016-10-21T14:22:05Z",
    "allow_failure": false
  },

  ...
]

```
  - By further passing this through jq filter `map(.id)` we extract the id of
  the builds for each of the splits
```bash
curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874 | jq '.matrix|map(.id)'
```
The resulting json looks like:
```json
[
  169519875,
  169519876,
  169519877,
  169519878,
  169519879,
  169519880,
  169519881
]
```
  - To use these ids in for loop we want to get rid of `[]` which is done by
  passing it through `.[]` filter
```bash
curl -sSL https://api.travis-ci.org/apache/kafka/builds/169519874 | jq '.matrix|map(.id)|.[]'
```
And we get
```text
169519875
169519876
169519877
169519878
169519879
169519880
169519881
```
  - In the for loop we have made calls to fetch logs
```bash
curl -sSL "https://api.travis-ci.org/jobs/169519875/log.txt?deansi=true" | tail
```
which gives us
```text
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:21:12,538]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: test 16 of 28
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:21:12,538]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: setting up
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:21:30,810]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: running
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:24:35,519]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: PASS
[INFO:2016-10-21 14:24:35,519]: SerialTestRunner: kafkatest.tests.client.consumer_test.OffsetValidationTest.test_consumer_bounce.clean_shutdown=False.bounce_mode=rolling: tearing down


The job exceeded the maximum time limit for jobs, and has been terminated.

```
* Links
  - [Travis-CI REST api documentation](https://docs.travis-ci.com/api)
  - [jq Manual](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/manual/)

Local Quickstart
----------------
This quickstart will help you run the Kafka system tests on your local machine. Note this requires bringing up a cluster of virtual machines on your local computer, which is memory intensive; it currently requires around 10G RAM.
For a tutorial on how to setup and run the Kafka system tests, see
https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/KAFKA/tutorial+-+set+up+and+run+Kafka+system+tests+with+ducktape

* Install Virtual Box from [https://www.virtualbox.org/](https://www.virtualbox.org/) (run `$ vboxmanage --version` to check if it's installed).
* Install Vagrant >= 1.6.4 from [https://www.vagrantup.com/](https://www.vagrantup.com/) (run `vagrant --version` to check if it's installed).
* Install system test dependencies, including ducktape, a command-line tool and library for testing distributed systems. We recommend to use virtual env for system test development

        $ cd kafka/tests
        $ virtualenv venv
        $ . ./venv/bin/activate
        $ python setup.py develop
        $ cd ..  # back to base kafka directory

* Run the bootstrap script to set up Vagrant for testing

        $ tests/bootstrap-test-env.sh

* Bring up the test cluster

        $ vagrant/vagrant-up.sh
        $ # When using Virtualbox, it also works to run: vagrant up

* Build the desired branch of Kafka

        $ git checkout $BRANCH
        $ gradle  # (only if necessary)
        $ ./gradlew systemTestLibs

* Run the system tests using ducktape:

        $ ducktape tests/kafkatest/tests

EC2 Quickstart
--------------
This quickstart will help you run the Kafka system tests on EC2. In this setup, all logic is run
on EC2 and none on your local machine.

There are a lot of steps here, but the basic goals are to create one distinguished EC2 instance that
will be our "test driver", and to set up the security groups and iam role so that the test driver
can create, destroy, and run ssh commands on any number of "workers".

As a convention, we'll use "kafkatest" in most names, but you can use whatever name you want.

Preparation
-----------
In these steps, we will create an IAM role which has permission to create and destroy EC2 instances,
set up a keypair used for ssh access to the test driver and worker machines, and create a security group to allow the test driver and workers to all communicate via TCP.

* [Create an IAM role](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_roles_create_for-user.html). We'll give this role the ability to launch or kill additional EC2 machines.
 - Create role "kafkatest-master"
 - Role type: Amazon EC2
 - Attach policy: AmazonEC2FullAccess (this will allow our test-driver to create and destroy EC2 instances)

* If you haven't already, [set up a keypair to use for SSH access](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-key-pairs.html). For the purpose
of this quickstart, let's say the keypair name is kafkatest, and you've saved the private key in kafktest.pem

* Next, create a EC2 security group called "kafkatest".
 - After creating the group, inbound rules: allow SSH on port 22 from anywhere; also, allow access on all ports (0-65535) from other machines in the kafkatest group.

Create the Test Driver
----------------------
* Launch a new test driver machine
 - OS: Ubuntu server is recommended
 - Instance type: t2.medium is easily enough since this machine is just a driver
 - Instance details: Most defaults are fine.
 - IAM role -> kafkatest-master
 - Tagging the instance with a useful name is recommended.
 - Security group -> 'kafkatest'


* Once the machine is started, upload the SSH key to your test driver:

        $ scp -i /path/to/kafkatest.pem \
            /path/to/kafkatest.pem ubuntu@public.hostname.amazonaws.com:kafkatest.pem

* Grab the public hostname/IP (available for example by navigating to your EC2 dashboard and viewing running instances) of your test driver and SSH into it:

        $ ssh -i /path/to/kafkatest.pem ubuntu@public.hostname.amazonaws.com

Set Up the Test Driver
----------------------
The following steps assume you have ssh'd into
the test driver machine.

* Start by making sure you're up to date, and install git and ducktape:

        $ sudo apt-get update && sudo apt-get -y upgrade && sudo apt-get install -y python-pip git
        $ pip install ducktape

* Get Kafka:

        $ git clone https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/kafka.git kafka

* Update your AWS credentials:

        export AWS_IAM_ROLE=$(curl -s http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/info | grep InstanceProfileArn | cut -d '"' -f 4 | cut -d '/' -f 2)
        export AWS_ACCESS_KEY=$(curl -s http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials/$AWS_IAM_ROLE | grep AccessKeyId | awk -F\" '{ print $4 }')
        export AWS_SECRET_KEY=$(curl -s http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials/$AWS_IAM_ROLE | grep SecretAccessKey | awk -F\" '{ print $4 }')
        export AWS_SESSION_TOKEN=$(curl -s http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials/$AWS_IAM_ROLE | grep Token | awk -F\" '{ print $4 }')

* Install some dependencies:

        $ cd kafka
        $ ./vagrant/aws/aws-init.sh
        $ . ~/.bashrc

* An example Vagrantfile.local has been created by aws-init.sh which looks something like:

        # Vagrantfile.local
        ec2_instance_type = "..." # Pick something appropriate for your
                                  # test. Note that the default m3.medium has
                                  # a small disk.
        ec2_spot_max_price = "0.123"  # On-demand price for instance type
        enable_hostmanager = false
        num_zookeepers = 0
        num_kafka = 0
        num_workers = 9
        ec2_keypair_name = 'kafkatest'
        ec2_keypair_file = '/home/ubuntu/kafkatest.pem'
        ec2_security_groups = ['kafkatest']
        ec2_region = 'us-west-2'
        ec2_ami = "ami-29ebb519"

* Start up the instances:

        # This will brink up worker machines in small parallel batches
        $ vagrant/vagrant-up.sh --aws

* Now you should be able to run tests:

        $ cd kafka/tests
        $ ducktape kafkatest/tests

* Update Worker VM

If you change code in a branch on your driver VM, you need to update your worker VM to pick up this change:

        $ ./gradlew systemTestLibs
        $ vagrant rsync

* To halt your workers without destroying persistent state, run `vagrant halt`. Run `vagrant destroy -f` to destroy all traces of your workers.

Unit Tests
----------
The system tests have unit tests! The various services in the python `kafkatest` module are reasonably complex, and intended to be reusable. Hence we have unit tests
for the system service classes.

Where are the unit tests?
* The kafkatest unit tests are located under kafka/tests/unit

How do I run the unit tests?
* cd kafka/tests # The base system test directory
* python setup.py test

How can I add a unit test?
* Follow the naming conventions - module name starts with "check", class name begins with "Check", test method name begins with "check"
* These naming conventions are defined in "setup.cfg". We use "check" to distinguish unit tests from system tests, which use "test" in the various names.
